# S3

S3 is widely used a data storage and magnus can use S3 as a run log store.

## Features not yet implemented

Using a single file as a run log store for an execution with parallel branches can cause race conditions.
One potential solution would be to break the run log store into multiple thread safe components which is yet to be
implemented.

## Additional dependencies

Magnus extensions needs AWS capabilities via boto3 to use S3. You can install it via

```pip install magnus_extensions[aws]```

or via:

```poetry add magnus_extensions[aws]```

## Configuration

The full configuration to use S3 as run log store:

```yaml
run_log_store:
  type: s3
  config:
    aws_profile: str # defaults to ''
    use_credentials: bool # defaults to False
    region: str # defaults to eu-west-1
    aws_credentials_file: str # defaults to str(Path.home() / '.aws' / 'credentials')
    aws_access_key_name: str # defaults to  'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'
    aws_secret_access_key_name: str # defaults to 'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY'
    aws_session_key_name: str # defaults to 'AWS_SESSION_TOKEN'
    role_arn: str # defaults to ''
    session_duration_in_seconds: int # defaults to 900
    s3_bucket: str # Should be PROVIDED
    prefix: str # defaults to str
```


- ### s3_bucket:

The s3 bucket to use as a catalog

- ### prefix:

The prefix to the path where the run logs are stored.

For example: if the prefix is ```datastore```, then the run log per run would be stored at:

```<s3_bucket>/datastore/<run_id>.json```.

- ### aws_profile:
  Defaults to '' or the ```default``` profile.

- ### use_credentials:
  Defaults to False. It is always safer to use RBAC instead of credentials.

- ### region:
  Defaults to eu-west-1. The AWS region you want a boto3 session to be instantiated.

- ### aws_credentials_file:
  Defaults to str(Path.home() / '.aws' / 'credentials').
  The file where AWS credentials are typically stored. This file is used in both use_credentials and by internally by
  boto3 while looking for profiles.

- ### aws_access_key_name:
  Defaults to  'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'.
  The environmental variable name that is to be used as aws access key, if you are using credentials.

- ### aws_secret_access_key_name:
  Defaults to 'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY'.
  The environmental variable name that is used as AWS Secret access key, if you are using credentials.

- ### aws_session_key_name:
  Defaults to 'AWS_SESSION_TOKEN'
  The environmental variable name that is used for AWS session token, if you are using credentials.
- ### role_arn:
  Defaults to ''.
  The role to assume if you are using sessions.

- ### session_duration_in_seconds:
  Defaults to 900
  The duration of the AWS session.
