# S3

S3 is widely used a data storage and magnus can use S3 as a catalogue storage.

## Additional dependencies

Magnus extensions needs AWS capabilities via boto3 to use S3. You can install it via

```pip install magnus_extensions[aws]```

or via:

```poetry add magnus_extensions[aws]```

## Configuration

The full configuration to use S3 as data catalog:

```yaml
catalog:
  type: s3
  config:
    aws_profile: str # defaults to ''
    use_credentials: bool # defaults to False
    region: str # defaults to eu-west-1
    aws_credentials_file: str # defaults to str(Path.home() / '.aws' / 'credentials')
    aws_access_key_name: str # defaults to  'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'
    aws_secret_access_key_name: str # defaults to 'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY'
    aws_session_key_name: str # defaults to 'AWS_SESSION_TOKEN'
    role_arn: str # defaults to ''
    session_duration_in_seconds: int # defaults to 900
    compute_data_folder : str # defaults to data/
    s3_bucket: str # Should be PROVIDED
    prefix: str # defaults to str
```

- ### compute_data_folder:

The ```data``` folder that is used for your work.

Logically cataloging works as follows:

- get files from the catalog before the execution to a specific compute data folder
- execute the command
- put the files from the compute data folder to the catalog.


You can over-ride the compute data folder, defined globally, for individual steps by providing it in the step
configuration.

For example:

```yaml
catalog:
  ...

dag:
  steps:
    step name:
      ...
      catalog:
        compute_data_folder: # optional and only apples to this step
        get:
          - list
        put:
          - list

    ...
```

- ### s3_bucket:

The s3 bucket to use as a catalog

- ### prefix:

The prefix to the path where the cataloging is done.

For example: if the prefix is ```catalog```, then the catalog per run would be stored at:

```<s3_bucket>/catalog/<run_id>/```.

- ### aws_profile:
  Defaults to '' or the ```default``` profile.

- ### use_credentials:
  Defaults to False. It is always safer to use RBAC instead of credentials.

- ### region:
  Defaults to eu-west-1. The AWS region you want a boto3 session to be instantiated.

- ### aws_credentials_file:
  Defaults to str(Path.home() / '.aws' / 'credentials').
  The file where AWS credentials are typically stored. This file is used in both use_credentials and by internally by
  boto3 while looking for profiles.

- ### aws_access_key_name:
  Defaults to  'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID'.
  The environmental variable name that is to be used as aws access key, if you are using credentials.

- ### aws_secret_access_key_name:
  Defaults to 'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY'.
  The environmental variable name that is used as AWS Secret access key, if you are using credentials.

- ### aws_session_key_name:
  Defaults to 'AWS_SESSION_TOKEN'
  The environmental variable name that is used for AWS session token, if you are using credentials.
- ### role_arn:
  Defaults to ''.
  The role to assume if you are using sessions.

- ### session_duration_in_seconds:
  Defaults to 900
  The duration of the AWS session.
